---
title: Mr. USA Gen-Z (College Essay)
description: Another one of my college essays... it\'s meh
lang: en
viewport: width=device-width, initial-scale=1
---


<meta name="color-scheme" content="light dark">


**The Voices of Generation-Z's Silent Majority in the United States**

*(Warning: This academic writing is slightly political in nature)*

*Inspired by the Writing with a Similar Title [(Mr. USA)](mrusa.pdf)*

\
\
**Client Name:** Urbain Sam Anderson (One of the Many Descendants of the
Uncle Sam family-tree)

**Address:** 0704 Silent Majority Dr. NW, Baltimore, MD 20500

**Description of Client:** Urbain Sam Anderson was born on July 4^th^,
1998. He is the first of the Uncle Sam family-tree to be born in the
"Zoomer Generation" or what is more commonly called "Generation-Z". He
was born into very strong traditions, beliefs, and embedded cultures of
his family. He arrives at my office today comfortably dressed, and very
much young and spry. However, I was keen to notice that despite a mirage
of positivity in his eyes there seems to be a level of anxiety that
emanates from his aura. What can be described as a "lost soul within".
We sat down at the top of the hour and have grown closer in
conversation. As we talked, he opened up a lot more, I started to see
that positive frame fade and a sense of being loss and confused starts
to creep out.

**Presenting Problem:** Mr. Anderson made this appointment in light of
many recent patterns that he notices in the social landscape where he
resides. Society for many of Mr. Anderson's peers has been associated
and even centered on what has been going on social media. He feels like
he lost crucial critical thinking abilities that he had when he was
growing up. Especially, when it came to thinking about social issues and
different poles of the political spectrum. He explains that he feels
like "social media does the thinking for us now and I feel like my
generation is fearful to go against the mainstream". He also states that
there now emanates a social anxiety when politics or controversial
issues are brought up. Everything seem to become more political nowadays
and polar extremes from each other are drifting farther away. For Mr.
Anderson, things are becoming more and more black and white in society,
polar opposites, and he fears that if he can't choose a side, he would
get loss in the cross-fire. Unfortunately, he also feels that if the
country he lives in continues to be divided and have said crossfire,
that solving key issues in the country are less likely to be resolved.

**History**: Mr. Anderson, growing up in the early 00's, social media
wasn't even something imagined by people living in those times. For the
most part, Mr. Anderson had a very similar childhood to the generations
before him, played outside with friends. When he was bored, he would
talk with his parents or play with physical toys, and still very much be
imaginative with the things that he was dealing with on a daily basis.
He explains that he notices the differences of life now, compared to the
life before social media. He states "it seems like as we gathered more
information, we've loss more meaning"

**Personality and Character Structure:** The client seems to no longer
know what they value. Mr. Anderson grew up with parents and family
members who value the typical US traditions of being patriotic, fighting
for freedom, and the value of the "We The People" moniker. These are
considered the more prominent beliefs from the Baby Boomer and
Millennial generation of people. He considers this very much
"Nationalist" and pro-USA in his perspective and in some ways Mr.
Anderson still very much values some these traditions and concepts.
However, in light of recent events, and a strong uproar from voices in
social media in regards to the true and unfortunate events with Cases of
Police Brutality (like with George Floyd), the prominence of unequal
rights, and the Overturning of Roe V. Wade that are often validly
associated with the polar-right as the culprit for such unfortunate and
hurtful events. Mr. Anderson now also sees the rationale and grounds for
the strong beliefs of the polar-left, which are often seen as ideals
against American Norms. Mr. Anderson finds that his beliefs often lies
in the center or in a neutral state. For some social issues he may lean
a little bit "right winged" and for some issues he may lean a little
"left winged". He mentions that he finds trouble from the *Ad hominems*
that he sees on social media and even sometimes are directed to him. The
*Ad Hominens* that he shared are in the nature of "If your stance is not
consistently associated with the side of the political spectrum that I
support, then you must be part of the political wing that I dislike"
which he sees as very black and white, and leads to a way of thinking
that requires you to either put a "right-winged" or "left-winged" lens
first before evaluating different social, political, and even medical
issues. Mr. Anderson finds this problematic as now we lose the "*Tabula
rasa*" way of critical thinking, which is to think of something from a
blank slate. He claims himself as "centrist" which he described to now
seem to be a Capital Sin from the left and the right in social media.
Mr. Anderson also feels like a lot of his generation are actually
silently in this camp, confused and lost as well, but they fear to
vocalize these feelings on social media (a very important aspect of life
in Generation-Z) because they feel like they would be attacked or
persuaded by the people from either the left or right wings of the
political scale.

**Diagnosis:** Client seems to be overly-emersed in conversations,
narratives, and debates on social media wherein in creates a level of
anxiety and confusion within themselves. The client puts a high level of
value and even associates actual society with what is happening in
social media.

**Personal Strength:** Mr. Anderson is very rational in his way of
thinking and despite his fears of being confused and lost, he is
actually very much self-aware of himself and has a relatively good grasp
of questioning things that are going on around him. This is often seen
as the first-step when it comes to resolving problem likes these and Mr.
Anderson already has the first step covered (at least when it comes to
the trait of having such).

**Treatment Plan:** A good treatment plan for Mr. Anderson would be to
do a detox from social media as these have been one of the main sources
of his anxiety. Especially, as political conversations are very much
rampant at present time (for good reason). He fears that he lost a lot
of his critical thinking abilities, so a good course of action for this,
would be to write out his thoughts on a daily-basis that are not
influenced by media of any sort, just his own thoughts about issues that
he thinks are important ---amongst other things, and nothing more. As
days in the treatment progress, Mr. Anderson should continue to reread
his work from the day before so that he can rehear his thoughts in his
head. I also encourage Mr. Anderson to create social connections outside
of social media, have deep conversations (beyond small talk) to an
elderly person at a restaurant, to a young person that he may see
walking down the sidewalk, and try to connect with people who came from
outside the United States. This may help the client disassociate his
social reality from social media and more so equate it with what he sees
in real life. This would help Mr. Anderson create tangible interactions
and perspectives, that in turn, would also help him form his own
perspective and beliefs, detached from the stronger voices found on
social media. I also encourage Mr. Anderson to research on "political
spectrum and compass" which is a more common distinction in other
countries, unlike in the United States where politics is often a line
(left, center, and right).

**Progress Milestones:** As the client improves, they should feel a
level of assurance within themselves and more security in their beliefs
as a person whether or not that falls "right, left, or center" of the
political meter. They should also feel a "detach" from the need for
validation of these opinions from social media. As we build personal
security with Mr. Anderson we can slowly reintroduce social media to him
and see if old feelings of anxiety would return. If a stronger sense of
self is created from the treatment, limited social media interaction may
be allowed.

**Prognosis:** Improvements in overall esteem, mental health, and
wellness should also be seen as a main cause of anxiety is removed. A
level of sureness will hopefully be developed as the client emerges from
therapy and a more positive outlook on life may be a good effect as
well. As the therapist, or any other future doctor who would take on
this case, may we be hands-on and encouraging to Mr. Anderson just like
how we would be with clients that have similar feelings of anxiety and
fear.
\
\
\
[\> next article](../07192022sharing-my-comment)\
[\< previous article](../071322identity-goes-deeper-and-beyond-our-traits)
\
\
[\<\< all articles](../../articles/)\
[\^ home](../../)
